README.md, before:

# sriov-network-operator

The Sriov Network Operator is design to help user to provision and configure SR-IOV CNI plugin and Device plugin in Openshift cluster.

## Motivation

SR-IOV network is an optional feature of Openshift cluster. To make it work, it requires different components to be provisioned and configured accordingly. It makes sense to have one operator to coordinate those relevant components in one place, instead of having them managed by different operators. And also, to hide the complexity, we should provide an elegant user interface to simplify the process of enabling SR-IOV.

## Features

- Initialize the supported SR-IOV NIC types on selected nodes.
- provision/upgrade SR-IOV device plugin executable on selected node.  
- provision/upgrade SR-IOV CNI plugin executable on selected nodes.
- manage configuration of SR-IOV device plugin on host.
- generate net-att-def CRs for SR-IOV CNI plugin

## Quick Start

For more detail on installing this operator, refer to the [quick-start](doc/quickstart.md) guide.

## API

The SR-IOV network operator introduces following new CRDs:

- SriovNetwork

- SriovNetworkNodeState

- SriovNetworkNodeConfigPolicy

### SriovNetwork

A custom resource of SriovNetwork could represent the a layer-2 broadcast domain where some SR-IOV devices attach to. It is primarily used to generate the a NetworkAttachmentDefinition CR with SR-IOV CNI plugin configuration. 

This SriovNetwork CR also contains the ‘resourceName’ which is aligned with the ‘resourceName’ of SR-IOV device plugin. One SriovNetwork obj maps to one ‘resoureName’, but one ‘resourceName’ can be shared by different SriovNetwork CRs.

This CR should be managed by cluster admin. Here is an example:

```yaml
apiVersion: sriovnetwork.openshift.io/v1
kind: SriovNetwork
metadata:
  name: example-network
  namespace: example-namespace
spec:
  ipam: |
    {
      "type": "host-local",
      "subnet": "10.56.217.0/24",
      "rangeStart": "10.56.217.171",
      "rangeEnd": "10.56.217.181",
      "routes": [{
        "dst": "0.0.0.0/0"
      }],
      "gateway": "10.56.217.1"
    }
  vlan: 0
  resourceName: intelnics
```

#### Chaining CNI metaplugins

It is possible to add additional capabilities to the device configured via the SR-IOV configuring optional metaplugins.

In order to do this, the `metaPlugins` field must contain the array of one or more additional configurations used to build a [network configuration list](https://github.com/containernetworking/cni/blob/master/SPEC.md#network-configuration-lists), as per the following example:

```yaml
apiVersion: sriovnetwork.openshift.io/v1
kind: SriovNetwork
metadata:
  name: example-network
  namespace: example-namespace
spec:
  ipam: |
    {
      "type": "host-local",
      "subnet": "10.56.217.0/24",
      "rangeStart": "10.56.217.171",
      "rangeEnd": "10.56.217.181",
      "routes": [{
        "dst": "0.0.0.0/0"
      }],
      "gateway": "10.56.217.1"
    }
  vlan: 0
  resourceName: intelnics
  metaPlugins : |
    {
      "type": "tuning",
      "sysctl": {
        "net.core.somaxconn": "500"
      }
    },
    {
      "type": "vrf",
      "vrfname": "red"
    }
```

### SriovNetworkNodeState

The custom resource to represent the SR-IOV interface states of each host, which should only be managed by the operator itself.

- The ‘spec’ of this CR represents the desired configuration which should be apply to the interfaces and SR-IOV device plugin.
- The ‘status’ contains current states of those PFs, and the states of the VFs. It helps user to discover SR-IOV network hardware on node.

The spec is rendered by sriov-policy-controller, and consumed by sriov-config-daemon. Sriov-config-daemon is responsible for updating the ‘status’ field to reflect the latest status, this information can be used as input to create SriovNetworkNodeConfigPolicy CR.

An example of SriovNetworkNodeState CR:

```yaml
apiVersion: sriovnetwork.openshift.io/v1
kind: SriovNetworkNodeState
metadata:
  name: worker-node-1
  namespace: sriov-network-operator
spec:
  interfaces:
  - deviceType: vfio-pci
  mtu: 1500
  numVfs: 4
  pciAddress: 0000:86:00.0
status:
  interfaces:
  - deviceID: "1583"
    driver: i40e
    mtu: 1500
    numVfs: 4
    pciAddress: 0000:86:00.0
    maxVfs: 64
    vendor: "8086"
    Vfs:
      - deviceID: 154c
      driver: vfio-pci
      pciAddress: 0000:86:02.0
      vendor: "8086"
      - deviceID: 154c
      driver: vfio-pci
      pciAddress: 0000:86:02.1
      vendor: "8086"
      - deviceID: 154c
      driver: vfio-pci
      pciAddress: 0000:86:02.2
      vendor: "8086"
      - deviceID: 154c
      driver: vfio-pci
      pciAddress: 0000:86:02.3
      vendor: "8086"
  - deviceID: "1583"
    driver: i40e
    mtu: 1500
    pciAddress: 0000:86:00.1
    maxVfs: 64
    vendor: "8086"
```

From this example, in status field, user can find out there are 2 SRIOV capable NICs on node 'work-node-1'; in spec field, user can learn what the expected configure is generated from the combination of SriovNetworkNodeConfigPolicy CRs.

### SriovNetworkNodeConfigPolicy

This CRD is the key of SR-IOV network operator. This custom resource should be managed by cluster admin, to instruct the operator to:

1. Render the spec of SriovNetworkNodeState CR for selected node, to configure the SR-IOV interfaces.
2. Deploy SR-IOV CNI plugin and device plugin on selected node.
3. Generate the configuration of SR-IOV device plugin.

An example of SriovNetworkNodeConfigPolicy CR:

```yaml
apiVersion: sriovnetwork.openshift.io/v1
kind: SriovNetworkNodePolicy
metadata:
  name: policy-1
  namespace: sriov-network-operator
spec:
  deviceType: vfio-pci
  mtu: 1500
  nicSelector:
    deviceID: "1583"
    rootDevices:
    - 0000:86:00.0
    vendor: "8086"
  nodeSelector:
    feature.node.kubernetes.io/network-sriov.capable: "true"
  numVfs: 4
  priority: 90
  resourceName: intelnics
```

In this example, user selected the nice from vendor '8086' which is intel, device module is '1583' which is XL710 for 40GbE, on nodes labeled with 'network-sriov.capable' equals 'true'. Then for those PFs, create 4 VFs each, set mtu to 1500 and the load the vfio-pci driver to those virtual functions.

## Components and design

This operator is split into 2 components:

- controller
- sriov-config-daemon

The controller is responsible for:

1. Read the SriovNetworkNodeConfigPolicy CRs and SriovNetwork CRs as input.
2. Render the manifests for SR-IOV CNI plugin and device plugin daemons.
3. Render the spec of SriovNetworkNodeState CR for each node.

The sriov-config-daemon is responsible for:

1. Discover the SRIOV NICs on each node, then sync the status of SriovNetworkNodeState CR.
2. Take the spec of SriovNetworkNodeState CR as input to configure those NICs.

## Workflow

![SRIOV Network Operator work flow](doc/images/workflow.png)

Commit message:

Add support for VMS -- Remove PF dependency

README.md, after:

# sriov-network-operator

The Sriov Network Operator is designed to help the user to provision and configure SR-IOV CNI plugin and Device plugin in the Openshift cluster.

## Motivation

SR-IOV network is an optional feature of an Openshift cluster. To make it work, it requires different components to be provisioned and configured accordingly. It makes sense to have one operator to coordinate those relevant components in one place, instead of having them managed by different operators. And also, to hide the complexity, we should provide an elegant user interface to simplify the process of enabling SR-IOV.

## Features

- Initialize the supported SR-IOV NIC types on selected nodes.
- Provision/upgrade SR-IOV device plugin executable on selected node.  
- Provision/upgrade SR-IOV CNI plugin executable on selected nodes.
- Manage configuration of SR-IOV device plugin on host.
- Generate net-att-def CRs for SR-IOV CNI plugin
- Supports operation in a virtualized Kubernetes deployment
  - Discovers VFs attached to the Virtual Machine (VM)
  - Does not require attached of associated PFs
  - VFs can be associated to SriovNetworks by selecting the appropriate PciAddress as the RootDevice in the SriovNetworkNodePolicy

## Quick Start

For more detail on installing this operator, refer to the [quick-start](doc/quickstart.md) guide.

## API

The SR-IOV network operator introduces following new CRDs:

- SriovNetwork

- SriovNetworkNodeState

- SriovNetworkNodeConfigPolicy

### SriovNetwork

A custom resource of SriovNetwork could represent the a layer-2 broadcast domain where some SR-IOV devices are attach to. It is primarily used to generate a NetworkAttachmentDefinition CR with an SR-IOV CNI plugin configuration. 

This SriovNetwork CR also contains the ‘resourceName’ which is aligned with the ‘resourceName’ of SR-IOV device plugin. One SriovNetwork obj maps to one ‘resoureName’, but one ‘resourceName’ can be shared by different SriovNetwork CRs.

This CR should be managed by cluster admin. Here is an example:

```yaml
apiVersion: sriovnetwork.openshift.io/v1
kind: SriovNetwork
metadata:
  name: example-network
  namespace: example-namespace
spec:
  ipam: |
    {
      "type": "host-local",
      "subnet": "10.56.217.0/24",
      "rangeStart": "10.56.217.171",
      "rangeEnd": "10.56.217.181",
      "routes": [{
        "dst": "0.0.0.0/0"
      }],
      "gateway": "10.56.217.1"
    }
  vlan: 0
  resourceName: intelnics
```

#### Chaining CNI metaplugins

It is possible to add additional capabilities to the device configured via the SR-IOV configuring optional metaplugins.

In order to do this, the `metaPlugins` field must contain the array of one or more additional configurations used to build a [network configuration list](https://github.com/containernetworking/cni/blob/master/SPEC.md#network-configuration-lists), as per the following example:

```yaml
apiVersion: sriovnetwork.openshift.io/v1
kind: SriovNetwork
metadata:
  name: example-network
  namespace: example-namespace
spec:
  ipam: |
    {
      "type": "host-local",
      "subnet": "10.56.217.0/24",
      "rangeStart": "10.56.217.171",
      "rangeEnd": "10.56.217.181",
      "routes": [{
        "dst": "0.0.0.0/0"
      }],
      "gateway": "10.56.217.1"
    }
  vlan: 0
  resourceName: intelnics
  metaPlugins : |
    {
      "type": "tuning",
      "sysctl": {
        "net.core.somaxconn": "500"
      }
    },
    {
      "type": "vrf",
      "vrfname": "red"
    }
```

### SriovNetworkNodeState

The custom resource to represent the SR-IOV interface states of each host, which should only be managed by the operator itself.

- The ‘spec’ of this CR represents the desired configuration which should be applied to the interfaces and SR-IOV device plugin.
- The ‘status’ contains current states of those PFs (baremetal only), and the states of the VFs. It helps user to discover SR-IOV network hardware on node, or attached VFs in the case of a virtual deployment.

The spec is rendered by sriov-policy-controller, and consumed by sriov-config-daemon. Sriov-config-daemon is responsible for updating the ‘status’ field to reflect the latest status, this information can be used as input to create SriovNetworkNodeConfigPolicy CR.

An example of SriovNetworkNodeState CR:

```yaml
apiVersion: sriovnetwork.openshift.io/v1
kind: SriovNetworkNodeState
metadata:
  name: worker-node-1
  namespace: sriov-network-operator
spec:
  interfaces:
  - deviceType: vfio-pci
  mtu: 1500
  numVfs: 4
  pciAddress: 0000:86:00.0
status:
  interfaces:
  - deviceID: "1583"
    driver: i40e
    mtu: 1500
    numVfs: 4
    pciAddress: 0000:86:00.0
    maxVfs: 64
    vendor: "8086"
    Vfs:
      - deviceID: 154c
      driver: vfio-pci
      pciAddress: 0000:86:02.0
      vendor: "8086"
      - deviceID: 154c
      driver: vfio-pci
      pciAddress: 0000:86:02.1
      vendor: "8086"
      - deviceID: 154c
      driver: vfio-pci
      pciAddress: 0000:86:02.2
      vendor: "8086"
      - deviceID: 154c
      driver: vfio-pci
      pciAddress: 0000:86:02.3
      vendor: "8086"
  - deviceID: "1583"
    driver: i40e
    mtu: 1500
    pciAddress: 0000:86:00.1
    maxVfs: 64
    vendor: "8086"
```

From this example, in status field, the user can find out there are 2 SRIOV capable NICs on node 'work-node-1'; in spec field, user can learn what the expected configure is generated from the combination of SriovNetworkNodeConfigPolicy CRs.  In the virtual deployment case, a single VF will be associated with each device.

### SriovNetworkNodeConfigPolicy

This CRD is the key of SR-IOV network operator. This custom resource should be managed by cluster admin, to instruct the operator to:

1. Render the spec of SriovNetworkNodeState CR for selected node, to configure the SR-IOV interfaces.  In virtual deployment, the VF interface is read-only.
2. Deploy SR-IOV CNI plugin and device plugin on selected node.
3. Generate the configuration of SR-IOV device plugin.

An example of SriovNetworkNodeConfigPolicy CR:

```yaml
apiVersion: sriovnetwork.openshift.io/v1
kind: SriovNetworkNodePolicy
metadata:
  name: policy-1
  namespace: sriov-network-operator
spec:
  deviceType: vfio-pci
  mtu: 1500
  nicSelector:
    deviceID: "1583"
    rootDevices:
    - 0000:86:00.0
    vendor: "8086"
  nodeSelector:
    feature.node.kubernetes.io/network-sriov.capable: "true"
  numVfs: 4
  priority: 90
  resourceName: intelnics
```

In this example, user selected the nic from vendor '8086' which is intel, device module is '1583' which is XL710 for 40GbE, on nodes labeled with 'network-sriov.capable' equals 'true'. Then for those PFs, create 4 VFs each, set mtu to 1500 and the load the vfio-pci driver to those virtual functions.  

In a virtual deployment: 
- The mtu of the PF is set by the underlying virtualization platform and cannot be changed by the sriov-network-operator.
- The numVfs parameter has no effect as there is always 1 VF
- The deviceType field depends upon whether the underlying device/driver is [native-bifurcating or non-bifurcating](https://doc.dpdk.org/guides/howto/flow_bifurcation.html) For example, the supported Mellanox devices support native-bifurcating drivers and therefore deviceType should be netdevice (default).  The support Intel devices are non-bifurcating and should be set to vfio-pci.

## Components and design

This operator is split into 2 components:

- controller
- sriov-config-daemon

The controller is responsible for:

1. Read the SriovNetworkNodeConfigPolicy CRs and SriovNetwork CRs as input.
2. Render the manifests for SR-IOV CNI plugin and device plugin daemons.
3. Render the spec of SriovNetworkNodeState CR for each node.

The sriov-config-daemon is responsible for:

1. Discover the SRIOV NICs on each node, then sync the status of SriovNetworkNodeState CR.
2. Take the spec of SriovNetworkNodeState CR as input to configure those NICs.

## Workflow

![SRIOV Network Operator work flow](doc/images/workflow.png)
